It's Bhima, Son of Vayu turn now. He is huge to say the least. He has the appetite of an wolf and is built like an Ox. His bulk makes people think that he is stupid but Bhima is adept at strategy, an astute tactician and knows the finer points of war. he understands that creating fear in an opponent is half the battle won. For some reason children never seem to fear him and he has a way with them that surprises everyone.
Three soldiers bring out his weapon of choice, the mace. He picks it up and wields it with ease. The mace looks small besides his huge frame. Duryodhana is his only equal but unlike Nakul and Sahadeva the two cannot be trusted to fight each for the show. The elders know that it might turn into a death match. A pillar of solid stone is brought out. Bhima takes one swing and it lies in tatter. There is a target that is used for archery. Its on the other side of the arena. Its an almost impossible shot. He flicks the mace and it falls. He grips it one handed and holds it like he would a javelin. A single smooth motion and the mace is released. The people are amazed. No one can hurl a mace that distance. The mace hurtles through the air and finds the center of the target.
The soldiers bring out another mace. Bhima picks it up, not a trace of fatigue from his efforts so far. He chants a Mantra. The mace is on fire. He lays the mace to the side and then gets two more and sets them on fire as well. He tosses them up in the air and soon the third mace enters the fray. He is juggling maces on fire. The crowd is laughing. Bhima has a gift for the Jocular but none doubt the strength of the man. Spikes pop out of the maces  so that there is just enough space for his massive hands. A miss would be deadly but of course there is no fear.
Bhima finally stops the juggle. He has a mace in his left and two in his right. He deposits them calmly. The crowd is entertained. The spies are stunned at this display of strength and skill. They have lots to report but they certainly have no weaknesses to talk about.