Don't hold back. Lets fight and with this Parsurama hands a Karna a staff. A non edged weapon but painful nonetheless.
The battle begins. Parsurama doesn't hold back and neither does Karna. Parsurama thrusts, he swings, Karna is keeping up but just barely.
The old Acharya has vigour in him yet, his stamina has not deserted him.
Some know that the event is happening. All are hiding and watching the show. The two best fighters in the camp slugging it out.
Karna responds to everything the Acharya does. Parasrurama taunts him "Attack you fool, you cannot defend all your life"
Karna grits his teeth, glances a blow of and attacks, his first blow, it is true, it might succeed but Parasurama is too quick.
Karna realizes that this time Parasurama is playing for real and what happened previously was just a dance.
All of a sudden where one swing should have been present there are many. Parasurama is changing the world to his well. There is only one stick but the swings are many, multivariegated, coming from all directions. Karna's reflexes are quick. He moves into the imprecise mode where every swing can be made many. The transition his mind makes is seamless, it is not even an effort. It is a habit.
The blows are blocked, some land but they don't affect Karna much.
Karna swings now, he is faster than the Acharya. blows land from all sides. Karna has tempered the blows though and the Acharya knows this. All the blows are blocked. 
"Don't hold back. You will be beaten" and just as he says so Karna gets hit. A blow that hit him on the back. He didn't anticipate that. The Acharya swung and let the possiblities handle everything. He was already at Karna's back.
Parasurama moves to strike the finishing blow but Karna recovers and recovers well. He grasps what his guru has done. He does the same. He blocks but a part of him is already on Parasurama's left and right. Both swing the possiblities hitting out at the Acharya. The Acharya is still blocked and two staff's stop at his Neck.
The Acharya has been beaten. Someone has beaten the Acharya after a long time and Parasurama has a beaming smile to show for it. He has taught Karna well.
"All of you can come out of hiding now he says"
Of course Parasurama and Karna noticed the crowd. To warriors the environment is the first thing they observe. The terrain holds many advantages.