Karna gets ready to fuck his wife, his hard won prize. The wedding has been grand, the grandest the kingdom of Anga has seen so far as befits a king.
Yet this rankles Karna, he cannot stomach grandiose, it eats at some part of him, gnaws away at his conscience. He is aware that he is setting  a dangerous precedent but that is what his advisors have advised. He wishes that he could get rid of those parasites. Then he realizes that he is the king and he can do what he wants and does get rid of them the next morning.
His wife is beautiful though, one of the beauties of the land. Two years back, he would not get close to the kingdom during the Swayamwara but Anga has been a rising star. The kingdom that nobody expected to rise has taken them all by surprise with trade surpluses in everything all thanks to a series of bold initiatives and grand projects, some of which failed but most of which succeeded. The canal project bringing the water of the Ganga right into their fields got rid of their dependence on Indra, Anga always had winds, Karna had heard of windmills before but never though they could be used to power things. In Anga they worked, Vayu was their friend here.
The Nagas have become allies from being sworn enemies. Karna is aware though that it is his prowess that holds them back.
The greatest problem Karna feels that his people think that they have done enough. Doing anymore would be akin to defying the gods will. He naturally does not agree. He feels that progress is limitless, they can do more, they should achieve more and not settle.
The room is set. Decorated with the softest bed and rose petals, the mandatory glass of milk is laid out which Karna drinks in a single gulp as always.
His wife walks in. They have not spoken before. Only their eyes have met during the Swayamvar where Karna was easily the best warrior of them all.
They are awkward at first but their bodies are hungry.
She is a beautiful woman and Karna is enjoying her. Because he does not know her he does not treat her as sacred. He tastes her and she him. Karna does not when he does it, perhaps it so much a part of him that he does not have to think about it. He is in two places at once. His tongue darts around. The queen moans, she has never felt such pleasure in her life. He penetrates her, he is inside. She is pleased. He is strong he keeps at it. The queen does not how it seems that he is two places once when she can see only him. The servants have been hearing, watching. This is how gossip will spread. Rumours of Karna’s prowess will reach other kingdoms soon whose Queens will be jealous. The Kings will hear of them too, the old ones will hear just some more complaints. The pubs and bars will have something to talk about and Karna’s repute will go up even further.
The queen herself looks at Karna a different way, she thought he was just a warrior but she sees the kingdom he has built, the kingdom he has wrought.