Its Yudhisthtra's turn to display what he can do. The arena is large, it is made for the heroes to be. It is the day people will be entertained.
The Pandavas are one side, the Kauravas the other. The crowd contains spies from the other kingdoms of course, looking to find any weakness they can in the Kuru princes.
The Kuru clans have weapons in hand. They are a fine sight.
It is the Pandavas first as they number only five.
The youngest always get precedence as per customs.
Kripacharya, Brother in law of Dronacharya announces Nakur and Sahadeva,
"Sons of Madri, matchless with the swords will fight"
Nakul and Sahadeva take the arena. The crowd is on its feet. They have been waiting for this to begin.
They will spar with each other. The risk that someone could die is too great otherwise.
The crowd buckles up, eager to hear the sound of steel on steel. There will be no wooden swords today.
Both take a bow before the crowd and then face each other and thus it begins.
Steel clashes with steel too quick to be seen. The mirrors fight knowing precisely what the other will do.
Nakul slashes at Sahadev's feet, no quarter given. He knows the elder twin will jump and jump he does to a breathless gasp from the crowd.
They demonstrate a series of feints, of thrusts and parries and blinding speed. Only a few can really see what is happening.
It is over before the crowd knows what has happened. They take another bow, chant a mantra and their swords are on fire.
The dance begins again, Nakul feints, Sahadeva knows that he will. All that is visible is the fire whizzing through the air.
The horses come out. Cattle are not entertaining enough.
They are the purest white, bred to perfection. Nakul has a black diamond on the center of his head. They are both creatures of exquisite beauty.
Obstacles come up from beneath the crowd as if on que. Nakul and Sahadeva drive saddle less. Saddles are dead weight. They ride together in perfect unison over blocks, controlling their steeds with reins, there is no need for a whip. They jump through rings of fire, across mud soaked trenches, the spies watch. The show ends. The audience applauds, they have been entertained.
Nakul and Sahadeva leave. The show has just begun.
