It was Yudhishtra’s turn now. Of all the Pandavas he had the most dichotomous character.
He was deemed to be extremely virtuous, was rumored to never have uttered a lie but was capable of falling to depths of debauchery that even Arjuna was not prone to. He possessed the inexplicable urge to gamble and was a habitual drinker.
He also seemed to be jealous of the martial prowess of his brothers and did nothing it seemed without the approval of Kunti. Her word was final as far as he was concerned.
Yudhistra was skilled with the spear. The spear is an odd weapon if you think about it. It possesses none of the subtlety of the sword, they are surprisingly heavy and in solo combat they cannot cut and wound. The only advantage they have is the reach but once the enemy is inside with his sword it is difficult to win the battle. A spear was largely used to bring down horse riders.
Yudhishtra is not a person for large crowds. He dislikes the spotlight, an odd attribute to have in an eldest son so he doesn’t have the same command of the arena that Arjuna and Bhima possessed. He steps out though as calm and composed as he can be.
He performs the basic moves with impeccable form and strength. He then brings the spear over his shoulder and throws it at the bullseye. A perfect shot.
THe next demonstration is one in which he will show his dexterity and skill. A fresh spear is handed to him. He takes his stance and gives the signal. A arrow is shot at him. It is moving blindingly fast. He intercepts it, cuts it in half. The archer then shoots two, the one releases earlier is aimed at his knees, another at his head. he cuts them apart as well in a single fluid motion whipping the spear from knee to head in a flash. The crowd is impressed. They applaud politely. After the feats of Arjuna and Bhima this didn’t move them as much.
The organizers might have done differently but it the custom that the youngest always perform before the eldest so that the younger ones have the freedom to express themselves and not be bogged down by expectations.
That ends the show from the Pandava Princes.