Kunti is walking around the forests near the Ashram. It has been three months since Bhima was born. She is bored once again. Nothing seems to be happening. She wonders how Madri entertains herself. Yudhishthir and Bhima have grown up fast. They don’t need her much. Her thoughts go back to Durvasa and the events that transpired. Her body yearns. Without even realizing what she has done she invokes the Mantra with Indra, the king of gods, the one who controls thunder and the clouds as the subject.
Kunti spots a handsome man in a chariot heading her way. The chariot doesn’t seem to have horses. It just moves with an effortless ease in the air and stops right beside her.
Indra strides out. He has that indefinable charisma that makes people and even gods follow him.
Strange stories abound around Indra. It is said that he is addicted to drink, gambling and women. He has been dethroned as the king on more than one occasion. Everytime he has been deposed the incumbent initially competent became drunk on power and began misusing it. Eventually Indra has always found his way back to the throne through some scheme. It seems to be that Indra is unaffected by power, he is still the same with or without it, a rare quality and one essential in a king but seldom found. He has a fetish for esoteric weapons that other gods do not even know exist.
Kunti is swept away at her first glance of him. Even Surya did not affect her thus. He invites her on board his chariot and she does not even think about disagreeing. They take to the clouds.
He entertains her, he is an excellent conversationalist. He makes her laugh and regales her with tales and the gossip of the gods which turns out to be more like human gossip than she can imagine which Pandu has never managed in all their years of marriage. Kunti feels free to talk to him about anything breaks down. She talks about the son she had to cast away. He reassures her saying he is in a good place with good people. Kunti complains about Pandu and living in a Ashram when she should be living in the lap of luxury. Indra agrees but extolls the virtues of modest living at the same time praising her devotion to her impotent husband. He presses all the right buttons and Kunti doesn’t even realize when the clothes come off.
He fondles her, plays with her and then lays her on the cloud. She thinks that he is going to fuck her when he is in her mouth. Kunti is disgusted but a small part of her realizes that she wants this. Once he is spent he turns her around so that she is looking only at the clouds as he fucks her like a dog. Kunti moans with pleasure. The king of the gods is evidently practiced in arts of Kamasutra and plays all the right notes.
Once he is spent he engages her once again. Kunti thinks that no one has understood her the way Indra has. He never mentions himself or her being under an obligation like the other gods and makes her feel like the queen she is. Evidently being bound, following orders is something that he does not like to. He drops her off just outside the Ashram and once he disappears Kunti realizes that she has never felt more used.
Kunti tells Pandu and Madri what has transpired.
Pandu is aghast. He berates Kunti saying that it was never her decision to have a child. She is in a feisty mood and will not listen to him.
“You would have a say only if you could do something about having children”
That stinging comment hurts Pandu. He leaves.
Madri only asks with a smirk “Was the king of gods better than the rest”. The answer is writ clear on Kunti’s face.
Nine months later a son is born. Kunti names him Arjuna. They will soon discover he has inherited his father’s charisma and not inconsiderable charm. Pandu wants to hate Arjuna but he cannot do so. He soon becomes Pandu’s favorite. They soon discover that Arjuna almost always gets his way and what he sets out to achieve he gets.
Yudhisthir the eldest grows ever more jealous of his two siblings. He possesses neither Bhima’s strength nor Arjuna’s finesse. He will grow more introverted as the years pass. Being Yama’s son he fulfills his duties and eventually grows to love his younger siblings.
Madri takes care of the three Pandavas as if they are her own and Kunti can see that she yearns for children of her own.