“Lets have another child” Pandu says. He seems quite eager. Yudhisthir has changed him. He enjoys tending to children he finds. They bring him peace which nothing else seems to do. Kunti find herself agreeing. After Surya she expected better from Yama. She hopes this time will be different.
The breeze blows, gently at first, then takes liberty with her body, throwing her clothes out of the way as if they do not exist, caressing her. She wonders why she never noticed how beautiful wind is. Kunti knows whose child she wants.
She seeks out Vayu, the god of the winds. He is huge standing at least a foot above Kunti. This is something that Kunti did not expect.
“My lady” shall we begin is all he says. All Kunti does is nod her head. He towers over her. Kunti’s neck is upturned almost completely. He kisses her on both cheeks and then on her lips. Their tongues meet, fight and finally settle down into a rhythm and cadence of their own.
Their clothes come of. He tosses her into the air and catches her as she falls inches of the ground. Vayu is strong as expected but his gentleness catcher her by surprise. He fondles her breasts, Kunti can feel his cock harden. The wind god is not one for subtlety. He lays her on the ground and climbs on top of her. He kisses her, tastes her. His mouth and hands find her breasts which he proceeds to squeeze. Kunti can sense his strength, can also sense that he is holding himself back. This is why the wind god has no wife she wonders. For a woman to take this strength every day would kill her. Kunti can feel his cock hardent. The size frightens her. Vayu thrusts, Kunti moans. The wind god burrows deep and Kunti is orgasmic. He keeps fucking her for what seems like an eternity. One hand is on his breast another in her mouth. Finally Vayu ejaculates. He is spent. He lies down beside her.
Vayu is barely flustered. Kunti is exhausted though. Just for a second Kunti is jealous of the Apsaras that find his favor.
“My lady I shall take your leave” and just like the wind he is gone. “I hope it was enjoyable for you” he says. Kunti nods. She has not spoken only moaned. Kunti will never look at the Wind the same way.
The next day she is sore. Such was the strength of the Vayu.
Nine months later a son is born. They name him Bhima. Soon he will also be Vikrodhara. As he holds Pandu’s finger he can already feel his strength. He is a worthy son to Vayu and and a true brother of Hanuman. It will take him only a year before he is bigger and stronger than his elder brother. He already has a voracious appetite and his feeding sessions leave Kunti exhausted. Even as a child he is changeable, generous to those he knows and quick to anger with rage as terrible as the wind god himself.
