Adhiratha steps out of his house. He has just had an argument with his wife Radha. He is a part of the Suta community of Charioteers who lived by the banks of Ashwa, one of the sub tributaries of Ganga.
The fire as always had started out with a small match. It was their usual discussion on children or rather why they were unable to have them. They had tried everything. They had gone for a year long trip of all the major temples in the country. No guru's feet had been untouched by the two of them and there was no esoteric remedy that had been left untried. All of this was of course to no avail. To compound matters their neighbors seemed to have absolutely no trouble in having kids. Indeed they turned them out by the dozen it seemed. Only yesterday had they gone to celebrate one of those births. Understandably this put them in a bad state of mind. They were among the few childless couples still around. When they walked they could hear whispers questioning her fertility and his impotence. In a country where a child was a gift from the gods they had nothing to show for.
Adhiratha goes to the Shiva temple on the banks of the Ganga. He doubts the efficacy of prayer and the whole concept of godhood but he goes because it is a part of his routine and routines are notoriously hard to break. The temple is simple and beautiful. The intentions of the architect are clear. It is a temple that one visits to pray, find peace and not admire the architecture.
He rings the bell at the entrance to announce his entry to Shiva. He walks forwards, touches the feet of the idol and starts praying. He knows a lot of Shlokas more out of practicality than anything else. The Brahmin bastards skin you alive before saying them on your behalf.
Adhiratha finishes his prayers. As he opens his eyes he notices that the sun is too bright. He turns his head away and in that instant he notics something in the river. On closer inspection thought it seems to be a cradle but he canot not be sure. The thing is quite some distance into the river so Adhiratha has to make a choice of taking the leap. He decides to leap. Any ray of hope is too good to just let go.
Adhiratha has always been a strong swimmer. Growing up near the river banks it had been a skill easily and well learnt. In a flash he is in the river, swimming with strong confident strokes feeling the water beneath him aiding him in his quest. He soon reaches the cradle. His suspicions are confirmed and he is overjoyed. The swim back is even easier than the swim to reach the cradle. He can't wait to tell Radha.
He walks back to his chariot, triumphant with the cradle nestled in both hands. He finds a boy loitering about, gives him an anna and tells him to inform his superior that he will be taking the day off because he has been gifted a child. Then he gives the boy another anna and tells him to give his superior sweets and keep the change. He also tells him that he will find him and beat him within an inch of his life if he finds that the sweets are not delivered the next day.
With this taken care of he rushes back to his home.
"Look at what I have found" he tells Radha.
"What is it this time. I hope its not one of your stupid jokes" said she
and then he presents the cradle before her. 
She is surprised to say the least. She is also obviously thrilled. Adhiratha himself hasn’t  made a closer inspection of the cradle and the child. He has been so eager to head back that only now does he notice all that he should have. The linen is of the finest quality, the child is with earrings that should look out of place but didn't. He notices the smile, the sheer good naturedness of it. He has seen babies smile before but his was a smile even more guileless than those. While Adhiratha was having these thoughts
Radha said "We should return the child, he is evidently of royal blood".
Adhiratha replies without hesitiation "He was discarded, he was not wanted. They will simply dispose of him again. No we keep the child. One does not refuse a gift when it is so willingly handed over to us" and with that the matter is settled he is their son henceforth.
They  name him Karna(the one with earrings) and Radheya after his mother. Sweets are bought and distributed. The greatest feast that the Sutas have seen was thrown. Even the brahmins are paid to ensure that everything is just right and not a stone is left unturned.
Karna has found a home.