The court proceedings of King Kuntibhoja had begun. The same old routines repeated themselves for the more formal a setting the more routines there are and the court was as formal as a setting could be.
There were two cases of property dispute(far fewer than usual) which were taken care of. An assassin had been apprehended on the city borders and was sentenced to life imprisonment. The court jester did his best to entertain and even succeeded for brief instants. The musicians played their morning ragas and were awarded gold trinkets(Their wives would later complain that it was not enough). It was all perfectly normal except for a dream that had been plaguing the King's mind.
The previous night, Sage Durvasa had appeared in the dreams of Kuntibhoja. In it Durvasa had informed the king that he and his acolytes would be stopping over in his kingdom for rest and shelter and that his daughter Kunti would be the one taking care of him. The mere fact of Sage Durvasa's visit had terrified the King and his daughter taking care of him and his retinue made his stomach churn.
The king was well justified in his fears for Sage Durvasa was not to be taken lightly. He was amongst the most powerful ascetics of the age along with being extremely short tempered, a dangerous combination if ever there was one. Stories of his quick temper abounded and the curses he cast when displeased were the stuff of legend. It was said that he had turned an entire kingdom to stone when they failed to live up to his standards. The king did not want such a fate to befall anyone least of all himself.
Kunti was  Kuntibhoja's adopted daughter. She had been given to the king by his friend as he himself was childless(this was not for lack of effort mind you, he had a harem of queens to testify to his exertions). She had been called Kunti(her original name was Pritha) forthwith by the kingdom as a token of their affection and the name stuck and she was regarded as a daughter of the king. (Both figuratively and economically, her husband would gain the kingdom in exchange, an expensive dowry if ever there was one)
He had thought over what he was going to do carefully. Kunti was able of mind, body and spirit and detested being pushed around. This was the perfect combination to take care of the Sage. KuntiBhoja knew that in normal circumstances Kunti would refuse. Hence he decided to summon her in court where his power was absolute and his word could not be denied.
Once the routine of the court was over and everybody was almost ready to leave(they were waiting for the king to make the slightest motion) when he asked his Chief Advisor to ask Kunti to appear before the court. The courtiers who were eager to leave moments before were now pondering upon why this had been done and soon enough rumors and gossip began to circulate(Courtiers can be worse than a bunch of old ladies they say).
The Chief Minister made his way to Kunti's chambers while the court waited. The Chief Minister then entered her chambers(with permission of course) and after enquiring after her health and other small talk he finally got around to the fact the King desired to see her in court. When Kunti inquired as to the reason all she got was a shrug of the head from the advisor.
On the way to the court Kunti guessed that her father must desire her to do something which she would not have done otherwise. She might refuse him as a father but could not refuse a king in his own court. She admired the king's craftiness and despised her father's underhandedness.
Her arrival was duly announced in court and the courtiers stood up while bowing at the same time. Kunti walked straight through without so much as a glance towards the king and asked him as to how she could be of service. The king thinks to himself that she will make a fine queen someday. She is holding herself well. He proceeds to tell her that Sage Durvasa will be visiting the kingdom soon and she is to be his caretaker. At this the court draws a collective gasp. Surely they think that the king cannot be so cruel as to assign the care of Sage Durvasa to a girl as young as her. Of course no one protests or dares say a word.
Kunti knows that she must accede to the kings wishes. She merely says that she will do as commanded(with particular stress on the word), touches her kings feet for blessings and departs.