It has been a few days since Durvasa has left. Kunti is by the river having her bath. She has always liked the river and she recalled leading the sage and his acolytes down to clean themselves. This brings her thoughts to what Durvasa taught her just before they left.
"These sages are strange beings" she thinks.
"Imagine saying a mantra, invoking a god and having a child out of it all". She practically laughs out aloud. What Durvasa hasn’t envisioned is the innate curiosity in any human especially in a Kshatriya woman. Kunti sees the Sun smiling down at her and decides to invoke the mantra with Surya, the Sun god as the subject.
She  is surprised when the Mantra actually works and Surya stands beside her in all his radiance and glory. Kunti believed in the gods but never believed that they actually came down to earth. She was an agnostic to put it mildly. Despite being taken aback Kunti cannot help but notice that Surya is the most handsome man that she has laid her eyes upon. He is broad of shoulder with perfectly formed features.
She realizes that she can’t have any children out of wedlock. It would put her and the kingdom into disrespect. This probably accounted for her next statement to Surya
"My Lord, I was just trying out what Maharishi Durvasa had taught me. I never imagined it would work. Please head back and forgive my curiosity. I shall be more careful next time." She said this in the tone of a child who’s broken a toy.
"Alas this I cannot do. I am bound by the Mantra and it would be impossible for me to leave till the deed is done."
"But how can I have a child out of wedlock. It would ruin mine and the kingdom's reputation in the eyes of the world"
"It is amazing how much consideration you humans place on petty matters such as what others think but I promise you that once the childbirth is complete your maidenhood shall be restored. Also I shall keep a watch on the child ." Even then Surya realized what would happen to his child.
Kunti thought this to be the perfect and only solution. She was caught between a rock and a hard place.
Surya is surpassingly gentle. He ensures that she is well taken care of fucking her gently with minimum fuss. That he is a skilled lover is apparent in the way his hands move across her body. Finally he is done. He pays his respect to Kunti and departs back to his domain.
Soon Kunti begins displaying the classic symptoms of motherhood which the king could not help but notice. He enquires as to why this was happening with some force. Kunti has no choice so she began the tale. Her explanation of trying to see if Durvasa's mantra worked does not impress Kuntibhoja in the slightest but being the father that he is he does the only thing that he could.
Kunti is sealed in her private chambers and only his most trusted aide Chamraj knows what has transpired. It is announced in the kingdom that young Kunti desired to visit the kingdom of her birth and would return soon to account for her absence.
The brahmans and pandits even carry out the Yagnas blessing the journey for success. The citizens do their part of being tearful and go about their duties soon after as if nothing has happened. The palanquin which is supposed to contain the queen is empty of course. By the time the accompanying entourage discover the fact they are dead.
Life goes on for Kunti as usual. She is hidden and not allowed to venture out or be allowed to be seen except by Kuntibhoja, Chamraj and a retinue of deaf and dumb servants. The cycle of motherhood is predictable and she goes into labour.
As pregnancies go it is fairly uncomplicated. The child is born just as the sun rises. The midwives say they have never seen an easier pregnancy and a child more eager to step out into the world.
Even just born the child is radiant and has a way about him. He seems to be drawn towards the sun. He is born with two earrings and an armor that is a part of him and will grow with him. These are the gifts of Surya his father. Even as a child it seems certain he will grow into a fine young man.
He wis taken some distance along the riverbank and then secured into a cradle with the finest linens and cast away. The midwives who have supervised everything so far are then disposed of by Kuntibhoja and Chamraj. Kunti is dragged away even as she was sheds tears for no mother can bear to see her child taken away from her. She will not be the same and the thought of her lost first born would haunt her till she will see him again.
Thus is Kunti's first born let loose into a river on a cradle. This son of gods will go on to perform many great deeds and some not so great. His is a name that will be remembered across the ages.