Preparations for the arrival of Durvasa are in full swing. The Brahmins are busy perfecting their intonations and enunciations. (Usually they could get by with many mistakes and even chanting the wrong mantras but Durvasa and his retinue would spot it in an instant.) The preparation of the food, lodging arrangements are supervised by Kunti in name only. The king has ensured that his entire advisory was on the task and that Kunti is merely a figurehead. He is after all trying to do what was best for the kingdom.
Sage Durvasa and his retinue finally arrive. They are spotted by the tower guards and information stating that a band of safron wearing mendicants has been seen is relayed across. Durvasa of course is the leader of the pack. He is the only one sporting a beard while the rest are bereft of hair from head to toe. (These brahmins never do anything by halves, either they have beards upto their feet or they have nothing, Tapasya(meditation in plain english) is the the stage in between).
The king greets them with the warmest regards
"Sage Durvasa, the greatest among the Rishis, thank you for gracing us with your presence". As Kuntibhoja continues to speak Durvasa interrupts him almost rudely. 
"KuntiBhoja, spare us the formalities, we have travelled a long way and are hungry, lead us to our baths and put some food in our bellies". Kunti suppresses a barely hidden chuckle at this.
This scares the king for an advisor of his has asked him to keep going as long as possible as they do not have enough bathing rooms setup. They have severely underestimated the size of Durvasa's company.
The king though seething cannot not do anything except talk which he has stopped from doing. Kunti overhears this as she is right beside and she has an idea. Before the king can speak again she says
"Maharishi, if you and your retinue would follow me I shall lead you to the river close by. It will serve as your bathing station and allow you to pray to the river goddess as well".
At this Durvasa nods his assent and lead his troops behind Kunti. While the troop is having a bath she tells the king that she has arranged for more food than necessary because she thought that more people than expected might come along. Kunti had reasoned that Sage Durvasa must have the most disciples because he was a picky guest and his being picky would ensure that the disciples got better treatment than if they went with other sages.
Kuntibhoja was more relieved than pleased at this point. The party took its bath and was refreshed. They desired a meal and Kunti ensured that everyone was served taking personal care of Sage Durvasa.
The yagna is due to begin. Durvasa and Kuntibhoja sit beside each other and Kunti is nowhere in sight. This Kuntibhoja decides is a good time to ask him
"Maharishi, I couldn't help but notice that you informed me in your dream that you would like Kunti to take personal care of you and your camp. She is but a girl not used to hard labour. I will put my finest concierge at your service for the duration of your stay if you will but stay this request"
"My good king, I was quite clear in my request. Do not presume to think that I perform my actions without thought. The reasons you mention of her not carrying out her task are precisely the reasons that she should do them. This brooks no discussion unless of course you would like us out of your kingdom. Did you not see that she led us to the river when the baths were underprepared. She has a presence of mind which can only increase."
The king thinks that he will gladly have thrown them out but to cast a man of learning will doom his kingdom and race forever, hence the discussion comes to a stop.
While the yagna is going on Kunti supervises the shifting of the lodging near the river. This way she reasons all the bodily functions can be taken care of with far greater ease and being closer to nature will keep the whole entourage calm.
Durvasa stays in the kingdom of Kuntibhoja for a year. In that time they scarcely have a cause for complaint. Everyday Kunti grows in confidence. There is a spring in her step and a command in her voice that wasn't present before. The king's advisors who guided her before now take her orders calmly trusting that she knows best.
Now the task before Kunti isn’t hard in the usual sense but to take care of a band of people for a year is a hard task and one that she gets used to and one she enjoyed. She realized that it is  more a matter of persistence and thoroughness. She finds Durvasa to be rather like a grandfather, one who is impetuous in his youth but mellows with age and in turn Durvasa looks up her as a daughter. Durvasa and Kunti get on surprisingly well.
Once they are comfortable in each other’s company she even dares ask him
"Maharishi, I had heard such stories about you and yet our kingdom is as before, I know many occasions where I breached protocol but the land still stands" to which Durvasa replied
"My child, the threat often causes more fear than the thing itself. I did turn someone to stone in my youth but those were different reasons. Stories about my temper spread. I let them stay because they ensured I was treated better and they got me a reputation. Not even Sages are immune to a little vanity."
The time for departure has come sooner than expected. Kunti is surprised to feel a twinge of sadness to see them leave. While the farewells take place Durvasa has a vision in which he sees Kunti being married to an impotent. He knows that there is nothing that can be done about this because such was destiny and that he should simply leave. Unfortunately Durvasa has developed a fondness for the child.
As she touches his feet he whispers a mantra. Asks her to remember it and tells her to use it only she is in want of children.
Thus does Kunti learn the Mantra that will change everything.