Pandu’s health is deteriorating. The reasons are unknown. He seems to have caught a mysterious ailment that doesn’t have a cure. The strong man he was is no more. He is a shadow of his former self and has become all skin and bones. His lips are perennially dry. He speaks in fits and starts. He is sectioned of, he dies in a day.
Word has been sent to Hastinapur, help arrives but too late. They too say that even if they were on time they could have done nothing. Kunti is stoic about the whole affair. Someone has to be. She is the rock of the Pandavas. Madri seems to be the more affected of the two even though Pandu and Madri were never close. Kunti is now mother to all five children.
Pandu finally dies in his sleep. His last rites are conducted in the Ashram.
Two months later Madri commits suicide. She leaves a note for Kunti.
“I cannot continue leading this half life, a life wherein my husband gets taken away from me without even consummating our marriage. This is not how I imagined life would be. I have no interest in living life as a widow looked down upon”
Madri didn’t speak to Kunti before doing this. All of Madri’s life has come to naught. If Kunti could have spoken to her she would have told her that life goes on and nothing is permanent, that eventually everything passes. She would have told her that she could have started a new life, the kurus would have provided her enough gold but beauty has its own pitfalls. Things come easy and never having faced any difficulties the first great one proves too great to handle. 
Kunti is a lone mother to five children. She takes the only sensible course of action and sends a message to Hastinapura. She cannot go back to Kuntibhoja. Once a woman is married she belongs to her husbands town. It is one of the great ironies of life that woman give up everything, they start a new life just when they become comfortable with the old one. They sacrifice their lives, their dreams and desires for their children next. It is a lot to ask but they do it uncomplainingly because it is expected, because that is the queer logic of the way society functions.
It takes time but Bhishma himself arrives to take Kunti back to Hastinapur. The Kuru clan never leaves their kin unattended. Kunti introduces Bhishma to the Pandavas. He notes that even though Yudhisthir is older than Bhima and Arjuna he is slighter than both. They are far more confident of their abilities and seem to possess a charisma that the eldest does not. Nakula and Sahadeva are delicately built but agile in both body and mind. Arjuna especially surprises him with his confidence and the two have conversations that extend into the night.
Arjun even now has the ability to be charming and genuine when he needs to be and Bhishma and Arjun develop a genuine attachment.
Bhishma has deliberately taken the long way back so that Kunti has time to recover from her ordeals, get herself in order. She asks Bhishma why such things happen and he says that such things are predestined. We don’t know what cards fate will deal, all we can do is make the best of them.
When they finally reach the kingdom, there is a grand welcome. The Kauravas watch their cousins with the elder two Suyodhana and Dushasan being particularly jealous seeing the welcome they get.
Shakuni, Gandhari’s brother is watching as well. The only question that plagues his mind is
“Who is to be King when Dhritrashtra dies.”
It is a conundrum. Pandu handed the reins of the kingdom before leaving so Duryodhana should be king but Yudhisthir has an equal claim to the throne as Dhritrashtra was simply a caretaker and not a king by birthright.
Shakuni is also sure that he is not the only one thinking the same.
Once Dhritrashtra has greeted Kunti, shown her to her quarters which are more than adequate and come back to his chambers Shakuni visits him.
“The Pandavas seem like excellent kids, they will make excellent companions for the Kauravas”
“As if 100 children could need more company” laughs Dhritrashtra
“Just be sure that they know their place, know that Suyodhana is the rightful heir to the kingdom” and with this idea planted in the blind king’s head he leaves.
Dhritrashtra cannot help but think that this might indeed be a possibility. Pandu for all his follies and vanity was a much loved king and no matter what Dhritrashtra has done the people have never supported him. They seem to think that the throne is not his  and he rules over them by might instead of right.
He summons Suyodhana’s trainers, asks them to place subtly indicate to Suyodhana that the kingdom is his and his alone.
He doesn’t sleep well that night. He dreams of disconcerting sounds and discordant chords fill his mind.