Over the next few years, Jambhavan takes care of Karna’s training. There is no grand plan as such but just talk about how things get done and how things work. He makes Karna curious about how the world works.
Radha is worried. The other kids are learning to read and write she says. They are just forming letter Jambhavan tells her, most of them will never gain understanding or acquire any interest in the great stories of our times.
He reads Karna stories, great stories from the epics, from mythology, tells him about the gods. One day Karna says that he would like to use the book. He doesn’t know the word read yet. Jambhavan smiles. This is what he has been waiting for. He teaches Karna to read. The squiggly characters that he so often sees become more than just drawn lines. They acquire a meaning for Karna. He loves to read. He reads the tales of heroes, of villains. He reads everything he can lay his hands on.
He takes Karna out to buy stuff with him. Karna looks and learns how business is done amongst men. Karna learns about numbers, about addition and subtraction. He learns the skill of counting money. He is good at it. His skills get applied every day. He struggles initially because the curriculum is not laid out in an easy systematic manner but that is its greatest strength. The chaos causes Karna to deduce meaning from it.
By the time he is 8 Karna knows the epics. He is curious, he is sharp. He is referred to as a genius by some but his parents now understand that he is simply a child who has been allowed to be curious. Karna is being educated in the truest sense of the word.
Karna admires the tale of Ram. He finds his adherence to duty over common sense tiresome. Later on in his life when he rereads the Ramanyana he will find Ravana to be unnecessarily vilified. He will hate the way he treats Sita and how his brother was more of a servant than a brother but for now he admires his valor, his bravery and his archery.
He tells Jambhavan he wants to be an archer. Jambhavan teaches him. He makes a bow for him with his massive but delicate hands. The bow is the perfect size, small enough that he can hold it, just big enough so that it pushes him to his limits. Jambhavan teaches him to aim, to shoot straight to make his own arrows out of wood. Soon he is visiting the forests, honing his skill by hunting rabbits and small creatures.
Karna’s days pass happily. He will never be happier than he is now.
Adhiratha notes that he is what a child should be. Not fearing the next day, fearful of going to school with incomplete homework, doing exactly what he likes to do. Carrying out his duties.
Jambhavan sends him out for week long apprenticeships to the chariot makers for which their community is famed. Soon he knows about wheels, how work with wood is done. He learns these skills from fathers whose own children do not do so because they are away in school.
He sends him out to work a week with his father riding a chariot. Karna has a newfound respect for Adhiratha. They are not distant any more. They talk about things that most parents and children never talk about. Karna admires the way Adhiratha coaxes the horses to their best. How he knows with a single sound where the chariot is broken or a wheel is splintered.
Karna is 9, he is a proficient archer, he has mastered reading, read all the tales and is great with the sword. He has learnt the skills he was most gravitated towards. He is also physically strong, generous to a fault.

Jambhavan has asked for a meeting with Adhiratha and Radha. He  wants to talk about Karna.
“I have done what I set out to do. Karna is now a great son, well learned and most importantly he knows how to learn, and do what he wishes to do”
“I have taught him all I know, all that I can impart to him I have.”
“and we are thankful for the time that you have given to Karna and us”
“Have you noticed the way he does things, with a quiet precision and a attention to detail, his imagination, his vision is profound. There are few like him. I am glad to know I wasn’t mistaken in my judgement.”
“You must send him to Parasurama now, in the Himalayas. Karna is interested in weapons and there is no better teacher. The Kshatriyas begin learning early but I am sure he will be their equal easily”
“He will teach Karna everything. He must depart as soon as possible. Pack his provisions and send him off.”
“Why are you in such a hurry” both ask
“Because otherwise both of you will hesitate. The biggest decisions must be made quickly when you know you are right.Otherwise doubt, procrastination will catch up to you and you will never have the courage to do so. You have trusted me with 9 years of Karna’s life. Trust me with this”
“How will he go” He will travel alone of course. That itself will be a learning experience. He will travel with sword and bow and arrow and his skill with those will keep him safe”
Adhiratha knows what Jambhavan speaks is true. 
Karna is asked to come.
Jambhavan bends down so that they are eye to eye.
“Karna, I have taught you all I know, all I could teach and you have been marvelous. I know you have an interest in warcraft. If you desire to learn more you must go to Parasurama in the Himalayas, he will teach you the arts of war no one else can. It will be hard but you will learn, this I promise you.”
Karna knows he will go even before he thinks about it. He says yes and says that he will start tomorrow. He is all too aware of the effect delay has. He hugs Jambhavan as he says this.
Adhiratha and Radha begin the preparations. They prepare his provisions.
It all takes a day to setup. When Karna tries to look for Jambhavan before taking off he is not to be found. Karna realizes that Jambhavan has left and he has tears in his eyes as he heads out to the Himalayas as per the route laid out by Adhiratha.