Parasurama and Karna clash again. Each day Karna gets closer to beating him but fails. He goes to bed with endless bruises and pain. He has been close many times but the Acharya seems untouchable. The others tell him that to fight one who has killed every single Kshatriya at will and hold him off is an achievement but that offers him no solace. He is driven and he has tried everything.
Something seems different about this day though. Karna feels faster, fitter. He has made the leap to understanding his skills. He has no equal in archery and so student and teacher fight only with swords and axes.
The Acharya goads him on. “Don’t hold back because I will not”
They fight without weapons at first. Hands meet. Fists hardened by the years of training clash. Everyone is watching but hiding. Karna is moving between the possible and the accurate warriors. Once he thinks he almost has the Acharya pinned but Parasurama counters with almost impossible quickness. They move as if they are blurs. They fight with great speed.
Finally they stop as if by mutual understanding. Catch their breaths. Pick up swords. This is the most dangerous. Even though the intention to kill is absent a single lapse of concentration could cost them their lives. Parasurama is fighting it seems barely pushing himself, he moves into possible mode, a single thrust becomes many, striking at Karna from various angles. Karna only just about manages to block the blows. He knows he is being defensive. He has to become slightly more aggressive, wrest the initiative. The Acharya seems to be able read his every move. It seems that he knows exactly what Karna is going to do and with this thought Karna realizes where is going wrong. In this flash of insight he changes his strategy. He becomes unpredictable, going with the flow, making random strikes.
The difference is palpable. The Acharya is on the back foot. Even though he fends away all of Karna’s thrusts and feints he has a harder time doing so. Karna attacks the Acharya with a single forward strike. The Acharya almost looks at this attack in contempt before blocking it easily. He has been fooled. Swords come from behind him and stop just a hair away from the back of his neck. The Acharya smiles, concedes defeat and lays the sword. Karna is thrilled. He has beaten the Acharya. This round is his.
They pick up the axes. This is where things get interesting. Karna has gotten close to beating the Acharya with the sword but never the axe. The axe is a part of him. It seems an extension of his hands. They twirl the axes between their fingers. He can feel the Acharya become serious, become more dangerous. He makes the first move. Running almost at the speed of thought. The Acharya is not present. The axe is a different weapon. It cannot be blocked, only evaded. Parasurama is behind him but Karna anticipates this and turns around just in time and manages to avoid the axe. Karna understands the only way to win is to become the possible warrior. He fights. Every swing is multiplied but the Acharya it seems is too good. He will not be beaten but Karna understands that he is ahead. The Acharya does not mount his own attacks, turn defence into attack as he has been able to do so before.
He takes a gamble he never thought he would take. The Acharya expects him to run, to attack him, instead he hurls the axe, throws it with tremendous power. The single throw becomes many all going for the Acharya. The Acharya looks terrified. He barely gets out of their way. It seems Karna has lost but behold he has managed to cut the wood out of Parasurama’s axe.
“That was foolish lad, you lost, you now have no weapon” Parasurama smiles but then he sees what has happened. Karna has harnessed the possibilities, his mastery is complete. There was infinitesimal chance that the axe would never leave from his hand and that axe still remains. He wins. He is on his knees. He knows what he has achieved is near impossible. What he doesn’t know is that after Bhishma he is only the second one to beat Parasurama.

Parasurama raises him up. “You are now my equal, my better. I have taught you all I know.” and hugs him.
Everyone applauds, they cannot help themselves, Karna has achieved the near impossible. There is a feast to celebrate the feat. The usually fine food of the Ashram is even better. Even drink is passed around which Parasurama doesn’t partake of. Karna is convinced to have a swig of it as well. There is much merriment and much sadness.
The next morning it is time to leave. Karna seeks the blessings of the Acharya.
“I know you haven’t seen your family in years but before going home I would like you to go to Hastinapura. There is a tournament, showcasing the best of the Kuru clan, what they can achieve. At the end they allow commoners to participate, to show their skills but no one does because no one can match up to the princes’. Go parade your skills there. Show the world the fruits of your training, your hard work. Don’t over do it though. All you do is match them, nothing more. Be brave, be fearless, and be aware of the possibilities” and with these words Parasurama sets Karna of for Hastinapur.
