The child is playing around. There is a calmness about him and a charm. There is strength there. As far as childhoods go he has had a pretty uneventful one with his parents being kind, considerate and as caring as they can be.
A bear of a man walks into the kingdom. He has travelled long and hard. Purposeless with nothing to do but wandering about. He sees the child playing around. He has found his project. The child shall be his student.
Jambhavan finds out that the child is Karna from a passerby and knocks on the door of Adhiratha the charioteer. 
Adhiratha invites him in. Those were different times. No one drives a guest away or a traveller in need. They talk about the good old times when everything was more moral and incorruptible. They speak of the decadence of today’s youth. Radha serves both a meal, simple but delicious. It is only when the meal is done and the hands washed that Adhiratha finally asks him “What is your business here and what is it you really want.”
“Your son Karna, I would like to train him”.
Adhiratha almost laughs but notices that Jambhavan is serious.
“Why would you want to do this”
“I am sure you can see he is different from the other children. There is a poise about him, a certain trust that is rare these days”
Radha interrupts “We will be sending him to the finest school we can.”
At this Jambhavan can only laugh “Have you seen what those things called Schools do, they teach only one thing and that is conformity, obedience. Follow the bell and nothing else. They teach a child nothing but to hanker approval from his betters. Would you want Karna to grow up in that manner, never questioning, schooled but not educated in the truest sense of the word. Would you want Karna to do things that his mind and soul revolted against but had to do anyway day in day out”
These schools extend childhood to far beyond what is natural. Keep them inside jails. Let me teach him. I do not offer this lightly”
“How do we trust you, what have you done before this that we trust you with the education of Karna”
“Have you heard the tales of Hanuman, I was with him when he made the leap to Lanka, He knew not his own abilities, they had been systematically beaten out of him. I helped him rediscover them. He made the leap. Tales are written about him. He is but one of my students. In every era I take up a student who I believe will benefit from what I offer”
Adhiratha finds himself agreeing. He had never liked school himself as a child, even though he was good at it he detested the schedule. He was about to say yes when Radha interrupted.
“Give us a  day to ponder this. This is a big decision to make”
“Very well think about it. but I will be gone tomorrow” and with this the bear man leaves.
Adhiratha is all for it. Radha is the sceptic but he finally manages to bring her around. He doesn’t know why but he instinctively likes the man. There is a certain candor, a certain honesty about him
“We will not be able to pay you a lot though he says”
“Do you think I have want of money, give me as much as you desire. I have enough to last me my lifetime”
Karna is introduced to Jambhavan, the bear man. Both take to each other, like each other instinctively and without reservation. If Adhiratha and Radha had any doubts they are settled the moment they see them together.
They realize that this will mean social ostracization. Their community will mark them out, for not sending their scion to a school but they are prepared to sacrifice this much for the sake of Karna.
