Gandhari is screaming. This has not been a comfortable pregnancy. She has been there for more than two hours trying desperately to push and push but it doesn’t seem to be working. If it lasts any longer she will pass out and die.
The doctors consult. Leading them is Sushrut the foremost surgeon of Hastinapur. He doesn’t normally do pregnancies but this is the birth of the future kings.
They cannot cut open her stomach and take the child out as it is stuck somewhere in between. Sushrut thinks to himself that had he knows something like this was about to happen he might have decided against it. He might have decided to cut open her stomach but something about doing so has always made him squeamish.
Everyone outside is praying. Sushruta dives in with forceps made specifically for a cause like. He can’t seem to get a good grip though. He is unable to find the head of the baby or any part that he can individually discern.
Finally after a lot of searching he finds something that he can hold onto. He pulls and Gandhari pushes once again. They manage to pull it off. What emerges next scares Susrut, the midwives and his party of workers.
They ask for Bhishma and Dhritrashtra to come in. Gandhari is faint with exhaustion. They cannot give her the child to hold, the fruit of her labors, a mothers deepest desire to hold the baby that she just created cannot be fulfilled.
All Gandhari has delivered is a lump of flesh which is why the struggle took place. It had no shape resembling a new born. How this travesty came about no one knows. The ignorant brahmins will say the gods were offended but no one truly knows.
Bhisma arrives. He sees the lump of flesh. The usually poker faced grandsire’s expressions changes but for just an instant. He is calm again. Dhritrashtra is told what has happened. He is in tears. The kuru class in without an heir once more.
“Keep the lump on ice. Preserve it any cost” says Bhishma. The servants do not understand the orders but they follow them.
He moves out and into his chambers. He summons his fastest messengers. “Go fetch Ved Vyasa” he tells them. “Whoever is successful will not need to deliver messages for life” he gives them an incentive.
The messengers drive their horses hard and fast. They change them many a time. The one known as Vinayaka finds him and begs him to come to Hastinapur. He of course agrees. He has always had close ties with the Kurus and understands their problems.
About a week has passed when Ved Vyasa finally reaches Hastinapur and meets Bhishma.
There are no times for formal welcomes. They move straight to business.
“Gandhari has given birth to a lump of flesh. The doctors tell me that she cannot have children again. The Kuru clan is heirless. Can you do something, raise children from the dead”
“Bhishma, its an imperfect, the one I might try, the stakes warrant it though. Let me do my best”
Bhisma asks one of the servants to get him the lump of flesh. He travels with Ved Vyasa. They go to the Ganga. Ved Vyasa washes the lump of flesh in the Ganga water all the while chanting something under his breath. He gives it a taste of fire, the element that makes life and takes it away. He summons a storm, there is thunder and there is lightening. The lump of flesh has electricity coursing through it. He cuts the lump of flesh into a 100 pieces and asks Bhisma to keep it in a place where plants are grown, in warm comfortable conditions. For the next three months he stays there. Monitors the cut lumps but now they don’t seem to be lumps anymore. They have life. The 100 pieces become 99 sons and a daughter. The piece that comes to life is deemed the eldest. They name him Suyodhana, doer of good deeds and his younger one Dushasana.
Ved Vyasa departs after his work is done, to take care of his Ashram.
While he was there Bhishma has kept his physical needs satiated, satisfied his lusts for Ved Vyasa has an unusual libido, one extraordinary among Saints. He has not been able to discard it and he has come to terms with it.
They discuss the scriptures, the Ramayana, the Upanishads. Bhishma still cannot get around the fact that upon hearing a single Dhobi speak out against Sita he cast her away to fend for herself. He wonders where this concept of monogamy came about when everything he has seen and understood of this world marks it as unnatural to mankind. Ved Vyasa can only laugh. They discuss warfare and the latest mantras that he has managed to conceive. He asks about how the storm came about. Ved Vyasa says that is dark magic and one no one should have to use but Ved Vyasa teaches Bhishma other things. He talks about how the Dwapar Yuga is ending and how Kali Yuga is just around the corner. Bhishma can already feel it happening. Already he sees people driven more by gold than their obsessions. He knows how corrupt the administration has become and how it grows like a weed that refuses to die. He can see it coming.
Gandhari and Dhritrasthra cannot believe what has transpired, how Ved Vyasa has achieved the impossible and they have no idea what it cost him. They wonder about the dark elements that he interacted. They know something happened during the storm that was conjured.
The Kauravas grow surprisingly fast. THey are strong able bodied and sharp of mind. One couldn’t wish for better.
