The messenger rides. He is trained well. His back can take the pain of a long ride easily. He stops at a shelter along the way. No one messes with him. They understand he is out for something important.
The messenger arrives at Kuntibhoja. He is at the gates. The guards are rude to him at first, they seek to drive away the vagrant but they see the seal.
They move away, take his horse to the stables. Its part of their training to recognize seals and their importance the messenger bears a message from the greatest empire of them all, the kuru empire.
The messenger is taken care of, given the best food and drink Kuntibhoja has to offer.
The next day he is taken to the King with the message. Kuntibhoja expects the worst but it turns out to be a proposal for marriage for Kunti with the younger scion of Hastinapura Pandu.
Rumours of his strength and valor abound. Evidently tales of Kunti’s beauty reached and so did the many paintings that Kuntibhoja had commissioned and leaked onto the market.
He is pleased at how effective he has been. He is happy that the rumors of the out of wedlock child have been swept aside. He accepts of course. The messenger departs far more comfortably than he had arrived.
Kunti is happy as well and why shouldn’t she be, she is going to be a part of the wealthiest clans in the nation and it would be stupid to refuse such an offer.
They ask Kuntibhoja to come and visit Hastinapura along with Kunti of course. He obliges. The kurus treat him well. The union is finalized. The Kurus of course control another part of their ever growing empire, more importantly they control the river that flows the land now. Kuntibhoja is a small state but it is strategically positioned with respect to water bodies.
The marriage happens with great festivities and merriment. Warriors get drunk on both sides, show their valor off. Of course there are a few deaths. No good marriage is complete without one but overall it is a surprisingly civilized affair. The city is transformed, there are games, there is much merriment and enjoyment.
Men and women are swept up in the frenzy. Many follow the example laid down by the royal families.
Gold flows. The Brahmins come in, say their piece, perform their rites and most importantly obtain Dakshina that will last them at least a generation.
Kings from all over Bharath are present at the wedding, they would not want to curry the displeasure of the kurus by failing to attend the weddings. The great sage Vashishta himself conducts the sacred rites.
Dhritrashtra the elder had been married a couple of years back to Gandhari but that was an altogether mellow affair because the queen had sacrificed her sight as Dhritrashtra could not see. A sadness pervaded the air but here the kingdom of Hastinapura is happy.
The wedding is over, Pandu and Kunti are tired but not tired enough to go straight to sleep.
Pandu and Kunti are both handsome. Pandu is broad of shoulder. They kiss gently at first, they do not know each other. They have barely spoken but the kiss seals their marital contract. They feel each other gently at first but then passion takes over. Pandu is on top of Kunti but something that she felt with the Sun god is missing. Pandu is flaccid, he is weak, he thrusts but nothing of any import happens. Kunti realizes what has happened with a sickening realization. Pandu is impotent. All his earlier gestures make sense, they were forced. The gods have a sense of irony after all she thinks. After being fucked by a god, having a sexual experience that few could come close to matching she is married to an impotent.
They try again and again. Their lovemaking sessions become wrestling ones. Herbs are tried, the best physicians are employed but to no avail. Pandu has no physical drive, the act of sex is meaningless for him.