“Teach me” Madri tells Kunti. “I have had enough of being childless”
Kunti has been expecting this. She sees the look of wistfulness in her eyes as she plays with Yudhishthir, Bhima and Arjuna.
Being a mother she understands the yearning that Madri experiences.
It is exactly as she had felt. She teaches her the Mantra as Durvasa had taught her. She also tells Madri to be careful. Pandu knows as well and he knows too that she takes lovers because he cannot satisfy her. He doesn’t say anything because he has condemned her to this fate. He knows too that she has had children aborted as she desires only Kshatriya children.
Madri invokes the Mantra. She doesn’t succeed the first time, nothing happens. She thinks its a farce but she has seen Kunti’s fine children and knows it cannot be. She tries again placing emphasis on the intonation getting it just right enunciating every word.
This time she is successful. The Ashwin twins appear. They are more handsome than any human she’s laid her eyes upon. They are also exactly identical. Twins usually develop differences over time and it is easy to see the difference especially if they are together but she cannot make out any. They are fungible.
It is said that the Ashwin twins never do any deed alone, they are always together. They are the gods of healing, valor and grace but right now they are here for only one reason and that is to fuck Madri. The mantra binds them till they finish.
Madri is beautiful. Even in the kingdom of Madra where beautiful woman abound she is looked on as more than beautiful. Her very presence is electrifying and even the gods are not immune to her charms.
Though she has had lovers, dalliances they have been ordinary lovers, lovers too eager and too pleased with their luck to really please her.
“Madri, the power of Durvasa brings us here, you seek to bear our children and so you shall” They speak in perfect synchrony.
Before she can do anything else she is undressed. The twins are gentle. They have fucked many a Apsara but even for them Madri is special. With her clothes off they see the suppleness of her thighs, her full breasts and her upturned lips. They feel desire coursing through their veins. They take turns to kiss her while the other feels the curves of her body. They taste her, feel every nuance of her mouth. They fondle her breasts with their hands and mouths.
The Ashwin twins lay her gently on the ground which turns surprisingly soft. One of them has her head in his lap. The other begins to fuck her, gently at first then giving himself away to his baser nature. The inside of her thighs is gorgeous he notes. The second plays with her mouth with one hand. Fondles her breast with the other bends over and kisses her.
The Ashwin twins switch places, the other Ashwin twin takes his turn to fuck Madri. He too notes her suppleness. He goes deep and is finally done.
The three of them are exhausted but extremely pleased. Madri gets dressed it seems by Ashwin magic.
“And now we depart my lady. The deed is done. We have finished what we came for”
They cannot resist themselves. Each takes a deep farewell kiss before they disappear.
Madri is happy. She hasn’t been fucked like this in a long time. Her lovers are usually incompetent Ashram boys who are so thrilled at seeing her that they are finished even before they begin. She smiles noting to herself that the Ashwin twins are not as they seem. They are different. When faced with a choice about who goes first it was inevitably the same twin. He must be the elder she thinks.
She is tended to by Kunti and Pandu. Neither ask her about her experience. Nine months later she has twins. They are mirror images of each other, fungible. They name them Nakul and Sahadeva.