The physicians have tried everything they can but they do not want to admit failure. They tell him that he is not at fault. It is Kunti’s who is the cause and her alone. The blame shifts to her. Pandu knows in his heart what the problem is but in a display of cowardice refuses to accept it.
The kuru clan needs an heir. Since Pandu rules the kingdom it is he who needs to continue the clan.
They look east to the kingdom of Madra famed for its fields and beautiful women. A messenger travels the way he had for Kuntibhoja.
Salya the king of Madra accepts. It would be foolishness to do otherwise he thinks.
Pandu gets married again to Madri. She is a beautiful woman perhaps even more so than Kunti. She is the only one who knows what will happen.
The marriage happens as before. Kunti has seen the charade of merriment of the joy that pervades the kingdom. People follow the royal example, more people get married, many manage to have children as well. She is now cynical about the whole affair, the farce of merriment. The married couple being bandied about as if they set the whole thing but she knows that both do not choose but simply go along with the rules and conventions set about without questioning them thinking that this will be to their advantage.
When the night arrives Pandu is flaccid, weak yet again. He is unable to consummate the marriage.
Madri breaks down in tears. Kunti consoles her. Both become fast friends united by a common difficulty they have.
Madri cannot bear being away. Her needs remain unfulfilled. She begins to take lovers. She is even with child twice but the child is not allowed to grow, to flower. She knows the consequences. The kuru clan will not take kindly to it.
Pandu is fed up with his life. He can feel the stares of the elders. He does not know if he imagines or if it is real but he sees contempt for himself wherever he goes. The pleasures of the palace begin to lose meaning for him. He decides that he will live the life of an ascetic now. His heart is not in governing the kingdom. He knows that Bhishma has been taking care of most of it. Governing the kingdom did not turn out to what he expected. He expected it to be full of adventure, full of excitement. Instead it turned out to be more buereaucracy than anything else. He didn’t imagine he would have to sign out so many forms, settle so many disputes, decide water problems, intervene between warring families. There was no joy in his life any more. He had no children to speak of. He couldn’t fuck his beautiful wives. He might as well live somewhere where at least he is free to travel in his own time and is not bound by the dull routine of the court. Whatever else you might say about him he is a man of action and once he has made the choice he is far happier.
Arrangements are made. The kuru clan Scion Bhishma is sad or feigning sadness. The kuru clan maybe the most prosperous in Bharat but it is plagued by men who are great warriors but not very good lovers.
Kunti and Madri have to leave with Pandu of course. It is their duty and even if they did stay behind they would not be very well treated so they choose to travel with the crown prince. They travel alone, with few clothes and just horses. Bhishma has made the arrangements. They will be staying at the best Ashrams in places with the most pleasant weather.
Dhritrasthra is made the new king. Although he is blind there is no other choice. 