Angad serves Parasurama dinner. He wonders what could motivate a mere child to come all this way to learn about weapons. He talks to him, he learns that he is the son of a charioteer and that Jambhavan has been his tutor. He notes the total lack of fear in his talk and the ease which he asks questions.
He is surprised when Karna asks him
“What has made the Acharya hate Kshatriyas. Why has he destroyed them so many times”
Angad does not what to say. He tries to change the subject but the more he tries to do so the more adamant Karna becomes. The more he seeks an answer. Finally he takes up a seat.
“Parasurama given name is Rama. His father was Jamadgini, one of the most revered sages for the day. All his brothers were devout brahmins devoted to the study of the sciences with no interest in anything else. They say the smallest needle is the best though and Rama was no different. He was scientifically inclined but he had a warriors temperament and drive. He mastered the use of the axe entirely through his own initiative. There is a story that goes about his presence of mind but that is a tale for another day.”
At this Karna’s curiosity is piqued. He desires to hear the tale of the Acharya’s sharpness. He has travelled long and far and these stories act like a balm.
Angad already knows that refusing will come to naught.
“Once it so happened that Rama’s mother Revathi had gone out of the Ashram to collect water from the river. She happened to spot some Gandharvas and this induced feelings in her” Angad does not how else to put this to a child but Karna seems to understand the implied meaning so he continues.
“When she returned to the Ashram Jamadgini noticed this and flew into rage. He could not tolerate his wife desiring someone else. He called all his sons one by one and asked them to behead their mother. They of course refused and he turned them into goats. Rama returned then after practicing with his axe. Jamadgini asked him his youngest to do. Parasurama replied that he would do it on the condition that Jamadgini would grant him a wish once he was done. Jamadgini agreed and Rama chopped his mother’s head off with one clean stroke. Then he asked his father to restore his mother’s life. Jamadgini was pleased with his son’s presence of mind. His anger was abated and he did so. All his brothers were restored to human form as well”
Karna listens rapt. This is what a warrior would do he thinks.
“Now can we get on with the earlier tale” says Angad. Karna nods and Angad continues. He is quite enjoying this.
“Once it so happened that Kartavirya Arjuna a king and hence a Kshatriya came upon Jamadgini’s Ashram. Of course the king travelled with a  large retinue and all his sons. They demanded food and shelter which Jamadgini should not have been able to provide but did so. You see he had a cow Kamadhenu that was able to fulfill any desire asked of him. Once the meal was done the King wanted to find out how Jamadgini had managed the impossible feat. Jamadgini foolishly told him about Kamadhenu. The king desired the cow more than anything else. Kshatriyas are used to getting what they want especially from the rest of the classes that could not bear any weapons and challenge them. He killed the entire Ashram and stole Kamadhenu away with him. Rama had been away on an errand and when he came back he saw what had happened. He found his family dead. He became angry. He found out who had done this and swore to kill Kartavirya Arjuna.”
“Wait how did he find out who the perpetrator was and why is always away on errands” Karna interrupts
“Do you want to hear the rest of the story or not”
and Angad begins again
“Now where was I. Aah yes. He then went to the kingdom of Kartavirya Arjuna. Rama challenged him. He only laughed and sent his army out to face him. Rama though only half of the warrior the Acharya is now decimated them. Rivers of blood flowed. The army was slaughtered. Kartavirya Arjuna himself came out to fight him. He had a boon that made him impervious to death and changed into a monster with ten hands. They fought for days without rest. Finally Rama discovered the source of his power, there was life generating nectar in his stomach. The king didn’t live for long after that. Rama came to the Himalayas after that and sat in penance till Shiva came down to grant him a boon. He demanded a better axe and was given one. This was an axe that was bloodthirsty and would drink blood and never allow itself to get wet.
Rama could never forget what had happened to his parents. He killed the entire Kshatriya race. He wiped out generations and the Axe drunk all the blood until it too was sated and could take no more. They say that the red soil in Kurukshetra is red because of the blood that Rama had his axe release over the vast empty fields.
Ever since he has been known as Rama of the Axe. Parasurama and he is our Acharya.”
“Enough stories for today. Off to bed. You need sleep. Your training begins and you better be rested”
“One last question” begs Karna and Angad waits to answer
“How are there still Kshatriyas in the world if he killed them all”
“He didn’t kill the women did he” says Angad with a small and with that he takes Karna to his chambers and sets him off to sleep.