Karna reaches Parasurama’s valley after a long arduous journey. It is not important how he gets there. That is a matter for another tale. He reaches Parasurama’s camp at night  haggard looking exhausted but happy. He has braved many dangers but the cold is what gets to him. Fire has been a most valuable ally.
He is stopped at the gates. Boys older than him enquire the business that he has and what a kid like him is doing so far away. He answers that he wants to be trained by Parasurama and wants to meet him. They laugh, Karna is tired, prone to anger, there is a scuffle. The older boys pin him to the ground but not before they receive a beating themselves. The oldest among them finally takes him to Parasurama warning him that he will most likely be driven away.
“Take a seat” is all Parasurama says.
“Why have you come here” he asks.
 “To be trained in the arts of war, to learn to use weapons, to ask that you teach me your expertise in these”
“This will not be easy. You are young. Enjoy your life. Have some fun.”
“This is what I enjoy. I have travelled too far to be driven away with drivel. Give me a direct answer but do not try and convince me otherwise. The decision is taken”
“Very well then your training begins the day after. Rest a while. Recover your strength. Have a look around. Angad ensure that he gets a room and bed to sleep on”
The oldest boys leads him, shows him his cottage. Parasurama gives everyone his own room and then he doubles back
“He is a mere child. Why do you train him? You have driven away many but chosen him”
“He came by his own choice. He is young but not indecisive. Did you not see the command, the poise, the desire to do something. He is genuinely interested the arts of warfare. It fascinates him. He will make a good student. No more. Off with you and to bed”

Karna’s training is hard, long and arduous. It begins with runs in the biting cold of the Himalayas with only his nether regions being protected. It is tough but soon he finds it makes no difference. The cold is invisible non existent. They always train except for a two day break every seven days. That is when their body recovers, gains its strength back and the mind gets a chance to roam. They get a chance to do something apart from learning warfare. Karna usually just reads. He still finds it the best way to use his time. He writes sometimes but mostly just whiles it away until the day comes when he just decide to practice a little during the break as well.
Parasurama immerses him in a weapon. He is not allowed to touch any weapon while he uses another.
He is taught without weapons in the beginning. They correct his balance, the way he walks the way he runs with subtle improvements. He becomes better at the most mundane of tasks. His hands are steadier. He becomes stronger and more delicate at the same time.
They train him in archery first.
Jambhavan has taught Karna well. The archery is easy even with the heavier bows and the arrows. The older boys are jealous of his prowess. They attempt to corner him once or twice but he is not the haggard, tired boy who came in. He is able to outwit them. He is not an easy target and after a while they let him be.
Parasurama teaches him to use an axe before the classic sword and spear. He wonders why but then he understands. The axe is a hard weapon to fight with. It is effective but because its handle is wood it can be cut away with a sword. This itself causes him to avoid blows when he can, be sure of his movement and himself. Parasurama is a master of the axe. He swings it about the tips of his fingers, rotating the heavy axe as if it were a quill. The axe follows his every command, his every desire. Some of the older boys are good with it as well but Karna has eerie sense of weapon craft. His body responds to them. He is soon better than everyone with the axe even those who have been training for far longer than he has.
The sword comes next. Parasurama trains him with swords of every size. They practice with daggers, with blades that curve around themselves, each of them having their own peculiarities, their own quirks as if they were individuals.
Once Karna is done with the basics he is taught the mantras that make the weapons infinitely more potent. Soon he can summon wind, he can make water gush from the ground, he can summon thunder and storms. The gods are at his mercy. He is now so far ahead of the rest of the Ashram that they train on their own leaving Karna to his own devices. He trains, he trains till he is perfect. He has become much to their chagrin Parasurama’s favorite.
He spends another year familiarizing himself with his old friends until he himself becomes the most dangerous weapon and the weapon he holds doesn’t matter.