Karna’s training is done. Parasurama summons him one night to have dinner with him. A rare honor accorded to only a few.
As is usual they finish their dinner with few words eating well. Only once food has been finished does Parasurama begin speaking.
“Karna, your training is done. You have learnt well. There is however something else that I can teach you”
“I would like to learn whatever you can teach me” is all Karna can say.
“Not so fast my eager student”
“What I will teach you next might make you forget what you have learnt so far. You will have to unlearn everything that you have learnt so far and relearn it which you might never be able to do. If you are successful you will be hundred times the warrior you are now but if you fail your training, your dedication will come to naught. I have seen this happen and I do not offer this lightly.”
“I just want to learn” says Karna although the prospect genuinely scares him. He is attached to person he has become. It will be tough to lost it all.
“Sleep over it. We meet tomorrow morning. Inform me of your decision then. You can either leave for home or you can train with me”
With that it is understood that the meeting is over. Karna thinks it over. It is the first time he is not able to sleep soundly in years. The next morning he tosses a coin and the for the split second the coin is in the air he knows what he wants. He doesn’t see how it lands.
He meets Parasurama.
“Master, I will continue my training. I want to learn everything I can”
“Very well then lets begin” Parasurama is poker faced as always but Karna can detect signs of pleasure.

Over the next few months Parasurama teaches Karna to split his mind. Do two things at once, perform different unrelated tasks with as much felicity as he did one. Its hard at first but Karna manages to master the skill eventually.

“Now begins the easy part” says Parasurama.

"The world seems as if cast in stone but underneath it all it is fragile, malleable, amenable to our will"
"When you cast an arrow, you determine where it goes, its motion is planned by you. You leave no room for doubt. There is only one possibility."
"Imagine though if you could harness all the possibilities, one arrow becomes many, a single sword thrust becomes many thrusts."
Karna seems to make sense of it all. His warrior mind immediately spots a defect.
"All the possibilities include the ones in which the arrow never leaves the bow, or ones in which the swords swing back on itself hurting the bearer"
Parasurama smiles, "That is where the training comes in, only keeping the relevant possiblities and discarding the rest".
It was hard to learn the skill. Karna simultaneously had to unlearn the skills he had learnt the hard way about being accurate, about being sure while remembering some of the lessons so that he himself would not be hurt. He now understood why Parasurama was trying to split his mind. It was as if he was two warriors. As one warrior he would be accurate, everything calculated and thought out. Every swing measured and perfect. As the second warrior he would be the exact opposite. He would be inaccurate, leave room for error, for possibilities but leave room only for the right ones. It was a hard balance to strike.
The toll this took on his mind was incredible and Parasurama feared for his sanity. There was no going back however on this road. Once begun it had to be traversed otherwise Karna would be half a warrior.
He immersed himself in becoming a possibility warrior. The other Ashram boys delighted in this because he was terrible at it. Parasurama would often make Karna fight them without allowing him to fallback on his usual self. He often went to bed with bruises, something he had the lost the habit of. His aim with the bow usually so accurate went haywire. His skills were broken.
Eventually though persistence wins most battles. Slowly but surely Karna become a better possible warrior. As the ashram boys began losing to him he gained in confidence. It took him a year of working hard every day when he becomes Parasurama’s near equal in the art. The mantras he gained had become hundredfold in their efficiency. He could summon rains and thunderstorms that seemed as if they would drown the whole world. He could fight ten people at once easily. He cut hit ten targets at once.  His control was such that he would suffer not a scratch but he lost the finesse and delicacy that he had possessed. That was the cost to be paid.
He began relearning his skills. This turned out be harder. They beat him again the Ashram boys but he fought until six months later he got it all back. He was the accurate warrior once again.
A further six months and he could switch between the modes. He became the most fearsome warrior by a distance. Some even whispered he was Parasurama’s equal but this was laid to rest when Parasurama began to spar with him.
The gulf between them was still vast. The master was a shrewd warrior. One does not kill the entire Kshatriya race by being naive. Everyone saw that the Acharya merely played with them. When he fought he was fearsome. He changed. It took focus just to watch them move. One could never be sure where the next attack would come from. Karna would be beaten brutally each day but he knew he was getting better. He was close to the day when he would finally beat the Acharya.