Pandu is morose. His health is deteriorating. The ascetic life he so desired is not fulfilling him. The details turn out be quite different from what was advertised. Its mostly endless riding from one Ashram to another. Being involved in the routine of the Ashram helping out the saints. Madri has found lovers in the most unexpected of places having dalliances everywhere. She is after all a young woman.
Kunti has mostly kept to herself. Her life has taken a detour that she would never expected it to take. She decides to take control in her hands.
She confronts Pandu one day
“Day by day you grow more disheartened. Every time you see a child rather than enjoying you despise for the very act of being born. What is it that ails you. Is having a child that important”
Pandu can only smile “My Lady, being a prince all my life I was always the best at everything. Had everything that I ever wanted. People looked up to me because I had everything they did not. I had power to get what I wanted, yet now I find myself powerless. My self esteem is shattered because no one else appreciates me. I know I sound vain but to a Kshatriya respect comes from within only when it comes from without”
Kunti has been caught in two minds about what she is going to say next but when she does say it there is no hesitation in her voice.
“There is a way. When I was a young girl Durvasa had come to our kingdom. Pleased with the services rendered he had taught me a Mantra. This mantra when invoked would allow me to have a child with any god I desired. If you wish you can have a child not your own but a godson”
Kunti has phrased it delicately but she can see the gears spinning in Pandu’s head. She knows that he would have gotten her pregnant with a Brahmin’s child using the ancient practice of Niyoga if it didn’t offend his pride, if he wasn’t worried that the child would turn out to be weak. This she knows makes sense to him.
“Kunti, I do wish you had told me of this before” is all he can say giving his agreement.
“I help you choose the god though”. Kunti nods her ascent and it is done.
“What do we say to Madri” asks Pandu
“Let us have the child. If Madri asks me how which she will I will teach her Durvasa’s mantra”

Pandu has been going over the pantheon of gods enthusiastically. There  are a lot of them. 33 million of them to be exact but Pandu cuts, slices and dices what he can. He is excited. He rules Agni, too temperamental and dangerous to a fault thinks he. Indra is ruled out for the eldest. Finally they settle on Dharamraj Yama the lord of Dharma and Death who  guides souls to heaven and hell and has a ledger on everyone’s deeds. Kunti agrees with his choice, a virtuous son for the eldest will be good.
Its been a while since she has invoked Durvasa’s mantra but her body trembles with anticipation. She still remembers Surya Dev. Much to her surprise it works the first time and Dharamraja appears.
She is surprised at how boring and normal he looks. She wouldn’t give him a single glance on the street thinks she.
“My lady, here I am to do my duty as demanded of me” He sounds bored. Kunti is pissed off. She is still a beautiful woman and  any man should be glad to be favored by her.
Dharamraj and Kunti have sex of course but he performs the deed as if it is his duty. He derives no pleasure from it and the moment his seed is in Kunti he disappears without uttering a word. Gods are strange is the only conclusion Kunti can draw.
She tells Pandu that it is done.
“I am pregnant with your child” says Kunti. Pandu smiles at the choice of words.
Madri comes to know of course. Her curiosity gets the better of her.
“I enjoy the dalliances that I have but have forgone any of the children that I might have had because they might not be worthy Kshatriyas. Tell me how you are with child”
and Kunti tells her of Durvasa’s mantra, of how she can have a child with any god she desired. She teaches her. Madri seems pleased but when Kunti tells her that no power on earth will stop the child from being born, Madri is disappointed. She wanted the gods to pleasure her but not the consequences. She will think about this she says.
For the next 9 months Madri and Pandu tend to Kunti, take care of her needs as she grows prone to bouts of anger over nothing. When the child is born they name him Yudhistra, the eldest son, the son of Pandu, Kunti and the lord of death and Dharma.